The Dzogchen practice is, of course, really the highest teaching of the Buddha. Every master has
mentioned that all the time.
Now it is highest. It is the most directly teaching, but yet it is the kundras.
And also, I would just like to encourage those who complete the kundra practice with the vandrava.
If they are not complete the kundra practice in the process, just really focus on the Vedyasadha
practices.
At least 10,000, you can call that 500 practices. We should not have neglected that because it is
the linear teachings.
Linear teachings. And that means in the teaching always, we are trespassing the treasures of the
wisdom of Rakhinees or the Dharmapalas, who God and such always said, Ekajati, Rahula, and Vedyasad
hus,
are what God, Kamthi, Dhurty, Lapas, and Palas more. They are guarding this teaching as a soul, as
a treasure.
Why they are carrying it as our own treasure? Because they don't want to neglect it and drop that
on the floor.
Like to cherish, to glorify ourselves. Then they will be so happy. So will be glorified.
They will be excited, happy, and supportive. Many times the teaching says, "Have you glorified
your bodhicata and will glorify our inner nature of the mind?" Dharmapala is hovering with you
day and night, and in Rakhinees. If not have the bodhicata and realization, even if you are calling
Dharmapala all the time, they don't hate. Their ears are kind of loosening to the other directions
and they are looking. They are so deep. They even don't move. So therefore this love and
competition
both each other, join and follow the instructions of the lineage master, our country really best
have ability. Then really Dharmapala is your own guardian and not just that. Bless that comes.
Bless is realization. Realization comes. What any teacher always read and I've mentioned many
times, you know that. Great Master Sara said, "Realization is only coming two factors, which is
meritorious and the devotions to the lineage. Meritorious, meritorious activities are familiar to
merit, merit, and then devotions. These two combined together come to realization. So then
bless enters. Otherwise if you don't have the devotion of meritorious activities and the
sunlight won't heat. Many times it is like hope. There's no windows. There's no walls. How
sunlight can come. Even there's a billion sunlight outside, clear sky billion. It always stay dark
and cold inside because there's no openness of the devotions, appreciation, joy, and bodhicata.
Many children please. When we have that, the billion sun comes. Light comes. It shines. Bless
it comes. And our nature booms. And that's what it's called, maturing our minds. Then it truly
began to mature. By the condition of the blessings and our nature as a cause and cause and
condition
we're together and the realization booms. Relization comes. That's how early teaching goes.
Therefore
all this is so important. So important and therefore can restrict that heart. We have to get
realization. We like to get some different changes. That's what we should for. We have to do that.
There's no other kind of emergency exit shortcut than these Zokki teachings have to do. Or we like
to do some shortcut and these things. We are tricking our own Salubai, our own egos. Our egos
and our attitudes. That means we've been doing that according to teaching from the biggest times
until we meet the teaching of the Gurda and Gurup and Masambha. So those are just a highlight
of those. We all know that. We all just reminding each other is what the teaching says. That's the
Sangha members. We're all Sangha members in one board. In a way one board we're going together
and reminding each other, helping each other, support each other along the path. And that is
then the gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, said the Sangha members. Sanghas. Connected with
virtue support or virtue attitude. That's what the teaching is. Now we go to the...